Difference between Http 1.1 vs Http 2 :

Http1.1 was founded in the year of 1997(Developed by the committee of Internet Engineering Task force). While Http2 was founded in the year of 2015(Developed by the http working group).

Http1.1  is relatively secure since it uses digest authentication, NTLM authentication.While Http2 has Security concerns from previous versions will continue to be seen in Http2. However, it is better equipped to deal with them due to new TLS features like connection error of type Inadequate_Security.

Http1.1 Expands on the caching support by using additional headers like cache-control, conditional headers like If-Match and by using entity tags. Whereas Http2 does not change much in terms of caching. With the server push feature if the client finds the resources are already present in the cache, it can cancel the pushed stream.

Http1.1 provides faster delivery of web pages and reduces web traffic as compared to Http1.0. However, TCP starts slowly and with domain sharing (resources can be downloaded simultaneously by using multiple domains), connection reuse and pipelining, there is an increased risk of network congestion.Http2 utilises multiplexing and server push to effectively reduce the page load time by a greater margin along with being less sensitive to network delays.

Http1.1 supports connection reuse i.e. for every TCP connection there could be multiple requests and responses, and pipelining where the client can request several resources from the server at once. However, pipelining was hard to implement due to issues such as head-of-line blocking and was not a feasible solution. Whereas Http2 Uses multiplexing, where over a single TCP connection resources to be delivered are interleaved and arrive at the client almost at the same time. It is done using streams which can be prioritised, can have dependencies and individual flow control. It also provides a feature called server push that allows the server to send data that the client will need but has not yet requested.

Http1.1 Introduces a warning header field to carry additional information about the status of a message. Can define 24 status codes, error reporting is quicker and more efficient. Http2 has Underlying semantics of HTTP such as headers, status codes remains the same.

